Font Prep
1. Open Photoshop or another image editor
2. Type out the numbers you will need. (1-20, 30-00 in multiples of 10, a second 6 and 9, and an underscore, as well as any logos you will use to replace crits)
3. Select your font, size it to 250pt, and keep it black.
4. Resize your logo, if used, to the same size as the font. 
5. Save your image as a JPG. 
6. Find an SVG converter online and convert your photo to an SVG. 
7. Open Blender. Import the file as an STL. 
8. Convert all your numbers to meshes. 
9. Go into object mode and select all, either by hitting A or by selecting in the layers, NOT by dragging a box around them, or else you will be missing vertices upon extrusion. 
10. Extrude the faces of the meshes with E or under Extrude>Faces
11. Join the 2 digit numbers with their corresponding pairs. (Select both of them and press CTRL J)
12. Rename all the layers to be the numbers they represent. You must do this or the script will not work. (Name your 1 mesh “1” for example)
13. Select all the meshes, right click, and Set Origin to Center of Mass (Volume). 
14. Copy and paste the underscore. Move the second 6 and the underscore to location 0 0 0 by hitting N and changing the values. 
15. Move the underscore down slightly on the Y axis. -.002 is a good place to start. Move it up or down accordingly. 
16. Join the 6 and the underscore. Rename the new mesh to be “6 Line.”
17. Set the origin of the new mesh to be Center of Mass: Volume. 
18. Repeat the process with 9, renaming the second new mesh, “9 Line.” and once again setting the origin to Center of Mass: Volume. 
19. Save your file as “Prepped fonts” or whatever you’ll remember. 


Setting Up Blender
1. Open "Edit Preferences" and navigate to the Add-Ons tab. 
2. Search "Extra" in the search bar. 
3. Click the checkbox to make sure "Add Extras: Mesh" is enabled. 

Optional Step for Size Tests
1. Paste 6 copies of the number 4 and one copy of the number 40 from your prepped fonts into a new file. 
2. Open the Size Test script that is included in the repository from Blender's text editor. 
3. Run the script. The numerals should be where you want them on the faces. 

4. If you need to rescale the dice, select all the dice in the layers panel, and click the "Object" dropdown menu.
5. If you mouse over "Transform" one of the options is to click "Scale." Click that option. 
6. Click anywhere, and use the panel in the bottom left hand corner of the screen to change the scale to your liking. .5 will halve the selection, etc. 

7. If you need to center the numbers differently, ensure your 3D cursor is at 0, 0, 0. 
8. Then, move each numeral individually to where you want it to be centered around the origin. 
9. Right click the object, and choose "Set Origin: Set to 3D cursor."

10. To change the depth of the numbers, open up the script in python that you want to change. 
11. For each numeral, there will be a command in the script that sets the z dimension of the numeral to 2. There will be as many instances in the script as there are faces of the die. 
12. Change the 2 to the number of millimeters deep you want your numerals to be. 



Installing the Addon
1. Save your files to your computer, and unzip if needed. 
2. Open “Edit Preferences” and select the “Install” icon in the Add-Ons tab. 
3. Select each .py file one by one and install. 
4. Check the box. 
5. When you’ve selected all the addons you plan to use, select “Save Preferences” in the bottom left hand corner of the window. 


Using the Addon 
1. Open your prepped file. 
2. Click the “Add” menu and select the die you want to make. 
3. Delete all the other numerals. 
4. Save your file under ‘Save As’ so you don’t lose your prepped fonts.
